# 2.4 Playtest Paper Prototype

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="✓ TASK" %}
Your team will conduct **playtesting** sessions with your paper prototype, in order to evaluate and improve your game's design. 

Playtesting of a prototype for a game is similar to [user testing](https://docs.idew.org/principles-and-practices/practices/design-practices/user-testing) of a prototype for a website, app, or device.

You'll playtest your paper prototype within your own team and then with people outside your team.

1. **Within your team, playtest your paper prototype to evaluate and refine your game design and/or paper prototype.**
   * Have one person on your team act as the player. The player can perform any actions allowed by the procedures and rules of the game.
   * Another person on your team will act as the "computer" by responding to the player's actions and controlling non-player characters and game objects — according to the procedures and rules of the game.
   * Focus on making sure the core gameplay makes sense and matches your targeted gaming motivations and player experience goals.
   * As necessary, make additions or revisions to your game design document and/or paper prototype.
2. **Record a brief video \(about 1-3 minutes\) demonstrating your core gameplay with your paper prototype.**
   * Provide narration \(or captions\) to explain the key features of the gameplay.
3. **Partner with another team to have them playtest your paper prototype.**
   * Your team should describe your game's targeted gaming motivations and player experience goals. Then briefly explain your game's premise and objective — as well as the basic actions that the player can perform.
   * One person from the external team will act as the player. Ask the player to “Think Aloud” while playtesting the game.
   * One person on your team will act as the "computer" to respond to the player's actions and control the non-player characters and game objects.
   * Another person on your team should record notes on issues and feedback.
   * After playtesting, the two teams can discuss the game in more detail to generate constructive feedback on the game's design.
   * When finished, the two teams should switch roles to playtest the other team's paper prototype.
4. **Within your team, analyze the notes from the external playtesting to evaluate and improve your game's design.**
   * Create a list of key game design issues to resolve, and generate design ideas to address them.
   * Make any necessary additions or revisions to your game design document.

### **❏ Deliverable**

Submit the following for your team:

* video demonstrating your core gameplay with your paper prototype
* list of key issues in game design and changes made to address them
* updated game design document
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="➤ EXAMPLE" %}
Here are videos demonstrating paper prototypes of video games:

* [Paper Prototype 1 — Remote Control](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y5U645KA5NM)
* [Paper Prototype 2 — Flying Toucan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mZyKyiRCxwk&t=21)
* [Paper Prototype 3 — Monkey vs. Mosquito](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KQ38gS7SNok&t=20)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="★ RUBRIC" %}
| **✓- Below Standard** | **✓ Meets Standard** | **✓+ Exceeds Standard** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Description | Description | Description |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

