# 1.6 Game Ideas

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="✓ TASK" %}
Your team will brainstorm design ideas for possible games that could fulfill the gaming motivations and player experience goals for your target player persona.

As you learned, there are many game design elements that define a game. Arguably, the two most important design elements are the game's premise and objective:

* The **premise** is the main dramatic concept driving the game's action.
* The **objective** is the main goal the player is trying to achieve in the game.

The premise helps establish the dramatic elements of the game, while the objective helps establish the structural elements of the game:

* Premise → Setting \(Game World\) → Characters → Story
* Objective → Conflict → Gameplay \(Procedures, Rules, Resources\)

If you have an idea for a premise or objective, you can then try to brainstorm related design ideas \(setting, conflict, etc.\) to help build a more complete game concept.

Of course, you might think of another game design element first, besides the premise or objective. For example, you might first have an idea for a setting — which leads you to an idea for a character — which leads you to an idea for a conflict the character has to resolve — which leads you to the idea for the character's objective in the game.

## Assignment

1. **As individuals, brainstorm and record your own ideas for possible games.**
   * Keep in mind your team's gaming motivations and player experience goals.
   * Try to think of ideas related to different premises or objectives.
   * Don't criticize or reject any ideas yet.
   * You do **NOT** need complete game concepts yet, but when possible, try to build on your ideas to think of related ideas.
   * If helpful, create simple sketches \(characters, setting, etc.\) to help record certain ideas. Sketching is also a good way to help spark more ideas.
2. **As a team, share your ideas, and brainstorm together to produce more complete game concepts.**
   * Don't criticize or reject any ideas yet.
   * Try to build on each other's ideas to create more complete game concepts.
   * You can also combine different ideas to form entirely new game concepts.
   * Be sure to record any new ideas the team generates.
   * Be sure everyone has the opportunity to contribute and be heard.
   * Be sure your team has generated at least 5 different game concepts having at least a premise and objective.

### **❏ Deliverable**

Submit your team's set of game design ideas
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="★ RUBRIC" %}
| **✓- Below Standard** | **✓ Meets Standard** | **✓+ Exceeds Standard** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Description | Description | Description |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

